Are right here we go let's do this let's tackle the third case study maximizing the revenues of an online
retail business with the powerful Thompson something algorithm.
So as you can see I prepared already everything but just to show you what I did.
I'm of course in the right working directory folder which is part 3 maximizing the revenues of an online
retail business with Tompson something which belongs to the whole artificial intelligence.
For business father.
So make sure to be in that folder and create this new file.
Thompson something that P Y which will contain the whole implementation then you can give the following
Tyrol's with the first introductory code sections where we'll import the libraries and we'll set all
the parameters.
But as you can see I provided some extra resources which are going to be important for you to implement
this Tompson something algorithm.
So let's have a look at them one by one.
The first one is just a reminder of what a beta distribution looks like.
So here we have three better distributions so you can imagine we have three different strategies.
First beta distribution here a second one here and a third one here.
And remember the most important thing to understand is that the best bet of distribution here is going
to the best strategy.
Is this one.
Because indeed on the x axis we have the return that is basically the rate of successes we have over
many rounds or if you want average number of successes we have over many rounds and I remind that around
it's just a customer connecting to the Web site and then choosing yes or no to subscribe to premium
plan.
If the customer subscribes that success we get one we work.
And if the customer doesn't subscribe that's a failure.
We've got to you where we work.
And so what we have here on the x axis is basically the average number of successes we get over many
rounds.
So that's what we have on the x axis and then on the y axis is the probability of these rates of success
and therefore here that's the density the distribution of all the rates of success is happening here
which are lower than the rates of success is happening here.
And so for example if we take this distribution here well the rates of success is happening here in
this range in the x axis have zero probability to happen here.
So this strategy will never get you any high rates of success whereas this one well you know the rates
of success is happening here are pretty high and they happen with a positive probability.
So first of all this rate of success here will happen with let's say 0.03 probability than this one
here.
This higher rate of success will happen with a much larger probability like 0.15 And then this one here
is the best one.
The rate of success happening with let's say a 0.2 probability and then of course the very high rates
of success this year have zero probability of happening with neither of the three strategies.
So that's what you have to understand will have a beta distribution for each of our nine strategies.
Here we have three strategies but we'll have nine beta distributions and we'll try to find the one that
of course is the most on the right because the one the most on the right is the one that has the highest
rates of conversion of which the probabilities are positive.
You know strictly positive.
So there you go please keep that in mind.
It's important to understand well the beta distribution and now let's have a look at the other slides
that I provided.
So this is going to be the simulation that we'll do because we'll make the simulation ourself which
is exactly what we did in both the first case and the second case study.
And so we'll make a simulation with the following conversion rates for each of the nine strategies.
And so as we can see that's important to understand as we can see one of these strategies is the best.
And of course it is the one with the highest conversion rate and the highest conversion rate here is
this one 0.20 that's a great conversion rate.
You know this big online retail company would be super happy to find a strategy that has this conversion
rate because that means it would convert 20 percent of its millions and millions of customers to the
premium plan.
So that would be a huge win for them.
But it has to find the strategy.
And I remind that this is only a simulation at the beginning of the experiment.
Well Thompson simply has no idea of these conversion rates here.
We only know them now because we're doing the simulation.
But of course at the beginning we will have no idea and no worries.
Thompson something will figure it out and you will see how efficiently it figures it out.
But there we go.
That's the simulation we have our nine strategies here.
Each of them has a different conversion rate pretty low for each of them that's normal.
You know it's hard to convert customers but there is this best one that we're to find.
And of course in the end when we go into production well we'll compute some returns we'll plot them
histograms of selection's we'll see clearly which strategy was selected the most and also we'll have
a look at the list of our selections and we'll check in how many rounds the Tompson something algorithm
was able to identify this best with the best conversion rate.
All right.
So that's the simulation.
And now let's move on to the next resource that I provided.
So here again you already saw this one.
These are our nine strategies composed of several elements of form a package an ad and a special deal.
Each of these nine strategies have the same cost of deployment so the cost have to be saved not intrinsically
and the strategies themselves but on the number of rounds that it will take to identify the best strategy
which we know because we are on the other side of the simulation is strategy number seven.
All right.
Because it has the highest conversion rate.
So not only it will minimize it cause but also again it will tremendously maximize the revenues of this
online retail business because you will have hundreds of thousands or maybe millions of customers subscribing
to the premium plan therefore generating a whole lot more revenues.
All right so let's close this.
And then finally of course I provided the whole Thompson sampling algorithm which we will implement
exactly as it is given here that is we're going to repeat a certain number of times which will be for
starters 10000 times but then you'll see we'll even try with 1000 times.
Well these are numbers of rounds.
We'll repeat the following three steps.
Step 1 we take a random drop and the following distribution with these two parameters and we do that
for each of our nine strategies.
Then step 2 we select know that the action happening here.
We select the strategy that has the highest value of these nine values drawn here from this beta distribution
and in step 3 we'll update these two numbers so this number is the number of times the strategy has
received a one word up to around and and this number here is the number of times the strategy has received
zero reward up to round.
And so if the strategy selected receive the one word will increment this one by one and if the strategy
selected received zero we were that is that the customer didn't subscribe to the premium plan.
Well of course we'll increment this one by one.
All right.
So Bruce simple resemble three steps but very very efficient and powerful you'll see will first start
with 10000 rounds.
You know just to make sure it can identify easily the best strategy which is strategy number seven and
then we'll try with 1000 rounds to see if it can identify it as well.
All right.
So that's close.
And now I guess we're ready we are ready to start our implementation.